I am Hagoromo, founder of
Ninshu, the Ninja Creed...
also called the Sage of the
Six Paths.
The Sage of the Six Paths?
Yes, indeed.
Naruto and Sasuke are the
current reincarnates of Ashura
and Indra's souls,
...and right at this moment,
they're battling against my
mother Kaguya...
Ashura?
You called me the "previous
reincarnate."
Yes, that's right. You may
not know, but Ashura and
Indra are my sons.
And Kaguya, the one Sasuke
and Naruto are fighting now, is
my mother.
She's what?!
And I can see that there's a
connection to Ashura and Indra's
souls within you, as well.
(Hagoromo) Their souls have
transmigrated over and over
again.
Ashura's soul was previously
inside you...
...and Indra's soul was inside
Madara.
(Hashirama) Inside me...?!
Mother was able to take
advantage of their souls...
...and after an extraordinary
length of time, she has now
been revived.
Right now, I know everything,
even the intentions of the
creature that is called Zetsu.
He is my mother's third son, who
influenced and tricked Madara.
(Hagoromo) In order to save
Naruto and Sasuke...
...you too, must know
everything that has occurred
before now.
Before I talk about Ashura and
Indra,
I must first explain the origin
of Ninshu, the Ninja Creed.
(Hagoromo) It was a few thousand
years ago...
Back then, my younger brother
Hamura and I sealed our mother
Kaguya in the moon.
Along with the Ten Tails.
[boulders crashing]
Hamura decided that he would go
to the moon as well, so that he
could watch over Mother.
Thanks for your help, Gamamaru.
Without the Sage Power that
you taught me, there's no way
we could have beaten Mother.
You're still determined
to leave, brother?
Yes. I must. There's something
that I have to do.
Just what are you planning?
(Gamamaru) My journey has two
purposes.
The first is...
...to find dwellings for
the Nine Tailed Beasts I
extracted from Ten Tails.
(Hagoromo) I want to make
sure they don't fight amongst
each other...
...and that people don't use
their powers for evil.
I intend to choose their homes
very carefully.
And the second purpose...is to
restore this ravaged land.
In our battle against Mother,
we caused terrible damage to
this place.
I have to find a way to atone
for that crime.
I see.
Yes, you're right. That is
a good idea. But the road
ahead will be difficult.
Yes, I'm aware.
You know, I had another
dream last night.
A dream?
Toads very rarely have dreams.
But the dreams they do have
always come true.
That's because a toad's
dream is destiny.
What did you dream?
I saw that far in the future,
there will appear a
blue-eyed youth
who can name all nine Tailed
Beasts and who will frolic
among them.
I dreamed that he will
call forth a miracle.
Does that mean there'll be
another age of discord?
I don't know.
So then, will everything I do
now be meaningless?
Don't waste your time worrying.
You may try with all your might,
but your fate is something
that you cannot escape.
Just go on your way, and if Fate
wills it, our paths shall cross
again one day, brother.
[splash]
Yes.
Farewell, friend.
Well, I guess that this is my
first test.
Hm?
Hey, hey, hey hey!
Just what do you
think you're doing?
I'm going to fix the bridge.
What?! But why?! No one
asked you to do that!
[grunt] What do you mean? It
seems this bridge is essential
to everyone.
Yeah, exactly! Everybody needs
it. So it's a problem for me if
it's there.
Oh? Interesting.
Just listen. Because the
bridge is broken now, everyone
has to stop right there.
That's where I come in.
You see, I go to whoever
wants to cross, pick up their
belongings,
and offer to help them
get to the other side.
Then, without a moment's
hesitation, I run off
with their stuff!
I may not look fast, but
these legs never fail! This
is what I do for a living.
[chuckle]
I see... So you use this
bridge to make a living
as a common thief.
That's right! So just
leave well enough alone
and get lost, would ya?!
But as it stands, this
situation's only good for you.
And it harms everyone else.
Hey! I said leave it
alone. Don't you get it?!
[gasp]
(Thief) Why are you going
through all this trouble,
anyway?
This is to atone
for my sins.
Oh. What, are you
a criminal?
Something like that...
Oh, no. There's no
bridge for me to cross!
Hey! Seems you're in
a bind there, mister!
No worries! Just leave it
to me! I can take you to the
other side of the river.
Oh!
(Hagoromo) I wouldn't.
That man's a thief.
He'll rob you.
What?!
[frustrated grunt]
Hey, stop messing around!
Uh...
Hey! You jerk!
Quit messing with my business!
[grumbling]
I'm not planning to
go anywhere until
I fix this bridge.
Maybe you should go
find another bridge.
Come on, don't be ridiculous!
Thieves like me have their own
territory!
I can't go anywhere else!
Well then, why don't you
help me fix the bridge?
I promise you that I'll leave
just as soon as it's done.
Look, quit joking
around, alright?!
Well, then... I guess there's
nothing more to say. You can
wait until the bridge is fixed.
Huh?
[rustling leaves]
[crash]
Huh!
[rustling leaves]
Huh?
[crashing]
Ugh, damn it! Alright, then!
I'll just get in his way!
[grunting]
Why, that bastard...
Where does all his brute
strength come from?!
[startled yell]
Hmph!
Huh?
[crash]
[heavy breathing]
[howling wind]
[frustrated sigh]
[rushing water]
C'mon! Damn it!
(Futami) Hey! Get it together!
We've gotta work fast or the
logs you worked so hard to
gather will wash away!
Oh... So you're going
to help me now?
I only want you to go away as
soon as possible, that's all!
And once the bridge is done, I'm
gonna tear it down!
[chuckle] I never said, but my
name's Hagoromo.
I'm Futami.
Nice to meet you, Futami.
[heavy breathing]
Hey. What are you doing?
What do you mean? What's it
look like? I'm building a
bridge! Can't you tell?!
You're just a thief! Doing that
won't make all the bad stuff you
did go away, you know!
Shut up! Get lost, you brat!
[annoyed grunt]
[chuckle] It appears that
you've become just like me now!
I'm nothing like you. I'm not
doing this to atone for
anything.
I told you. I'm destroying it
once it's done!
[hammering]
All that work and only
a third done.
Breaking it is easy but building
it back up is a lot of work.
I don't know, It feels pretty
sturdy. It isn't gonna be easy
to break this one!
That's true. If we
make it too sturdy...
...you'll break your bones
when you try to destroy it.
Uh--
[chuckling]
[gasp]
(Futami) Hey, you! Get your
hands off those logs! We're
using those to fix the bridge!
(Villager) We just thought we'd
help you out.
Yeah, after all, we're going to
be using the bridge, too.
[crash]
Hey, be careful! Just grab a
smaller one...
[agreeing grunt]
[hammering]
(Futami) It's finished!
We did it!
The bridge is really finished!
[laughing]
(Boy) [laughing] This is
awesome!
It's done, eh? A bridge worth
the effort to destroy.
Are you kidding me?! After all
the work we put into it, there's
no way I'd destroy it.
[chuckling]
You know, you did
something great here.
Now I think it's time for me
to move on to a new place.
Take care of yourself, Futami.
Hey, wait up!
I'm coming, too!
Oh? I thought that bridge
was where you lived.
Yeah, it was, but with an
awesome bridge like that...
Well, frankly, my business is
done for!
(Hagoromo) When you do a good
deed, people are grateful,
...and that creates a nice
feeling inside you.
And then, because it feels good,
that makes you want to do even
more good deeds.
That repetition is the cycle of
goodness.
You know, you're right! It makes
sense when you put it like that.
You really have a
way with words.
By the way, I didn't
ask you before, but...
(Futami) Who are you anyway?
[gasp]
Someone who once wreaked an
enormous amount of havoc upon
this world...
A bunch of years ago, there were
all these giant tsunami
... and volcanic eruptions here
and there.
Don't tell me you're saying that
you're the one who caused them!
Oh come on, there's no way
one person could've done that!
And besides, if you were that
strong, you could've fixed that
bridge in an instant
...instead of working
and sweating so hard
to do it!
I decided that I would never
use excessive power like
that again.
Or else I wouldn't be able to
understand how people feel. Now
please, put your hand out.
Whoa, what is this?!
Power's surging in me!
I passed some of my own
power on to you just now.
Your power?
Yes. Rather,
let's call it chakra.
It's a power that connects
people to each other...
Or at least that's the kind of
power that I want it to be.
You passed something
like that on to me?
Yes, that's right. But it isn't
something that I can bestow to
just anyone.
As we've spent time together,
I've come to feel very close to
you.
And you've learned what it
means to have a good heart.
[sigh]
What are you doing now?
I beg you! Let me
be your apprentice!
My apprentice...?!
Yeah! I can tell that there's
something very special in you.
Till now, I've lived
a meaningless life. Everything
I've done has been worthless!
But you're different! You're
someone who's able to do
truly great things!
So if I stay with you
and learn from you,
...then maybe I can
bring some worth to my
insignificant life.
Are you saying that
you want to help
other people now?
After we finished that bridge,
...and I saw all those smiling,
happy people,
I have never felt prouder!
And I will never forget the
looks on their faces!
That's the bond you spoke
of! I mean, isn't that
right, Master Hagoromo?
You know, I believe that you've
just taught me something very
important.
I think the journey I'm on
has uncovered another
significant purpose.
A third goal to fulfill: to
help people create connections
through chakra.
Hm.
[chuckle]
Hey, guys!
Seems you're in a bind,
what with the bridge
being broken and all.
Well don't you worry! I
can help you cross to
the other side--
Hey, it's you! What do you think
you're doing, coming over here?!
This is my turf, you know!
We've come here because we're
going to rebuild this bridge!
(Mitsuo) You're what?! What the
hell are you talking about?
Just listen up! From here on
out, you're gonna become a good
person, you got that?!
Uh, are you alright? Did you
hit your head or something?
[laughing]
(Hagoromo) Over time...albeit
rather slowly...
...I encountered other people
who understood and agreed with
my way of thinking.
And from among those people,
...some decided to join me on my
journey in order to try to help
other people in need.
Shortly after that, I chose
several of them to be my
apprentices,
...and I passed on my chakra to
them.
I named the bond between us...
"Ninshu, the Ninja Creed."
As I trained with my
apprentices, I continued to
ponder many questions...
What is life?
What is love?
What is power?
We believed that someday,
...the bond between people that
was created by chakra would lead
to world peace.
We continued our travels for a
very long time.
We restored places that had
nearly been destroyed, often for
no reason...
When we discovered
locations in those regions
...where we could safely release
the Tailed Beasts,
...we built shrines for the
purpose of guarding them.
And so, Ninshu, the Ninja Creed,
spread to every corner of the
world.
Many of my pupils remained in
the regions where the Tailed
Beasts would be released
...while others traveled to
different areas to repair the
land in my place.
And later, on my deathbed, I
sent the Tailed Beasts that had
been inside me
...to their respective lands.
I prayed that they'd be able to
spend their days in peace.
I will not live much longer...
Shukaku, Matatabi, Isobu, Son
Goku, Kokuo, Saiken, Chomei,
Gyuki, and Kurama...
even if you're far apart, you'll
aways be together.
Eventually the day will come
when you will be united again
...each of you with a unique
name and a different form than
before.
And unlike when you were inside
of me, you will be guided down
the right path.
I hope you learn what true
strength is...
Before that time comes...
But as you know, contrary to my
hopes...
Throughout this long history,
men appeared one after another
with the desire to use the
Tailed Beasts for their own evil
purposes.
And that turned the Tailed
Beasts against mankind.
Anyway, back to my story. We
continued our long journey.
When at last I had fulfilled all
three of my goals, I returned to
my village,
...and made it the headquarters
of Ninshu.
I married, and in time, I
fathered two sons.
Their names were Indra and
Ashura.
Their mother had a difficult
recovery after giving birth to
Ashura,
...and she passed away shortly
afterword.
But my two sons grew up strong
and healthy, and they were very
close to each other.
The older one was especially
caring,
...and the younger one was
always chasing after his
brother.
At the time, I didn't realize
it, but...
There was a dark force that was
already at work.
Trying to manipulate my sons.
(Hagoromo) At the time, Ninshu
did not yet have a practical
application for fighting.
My original intent was for it to
help bring souls together.
However, due to the innovations
that Indra introduced,
...the course of Ninshu was
changed drastically.
Next time on Naruto Shippuden:
"Ashura and Indra."
He was the one worthy of being
called the "Genius of Ninshu."